=Introduction=
So here begins my journey of trying out some theories on productivty I have discovered. Almost always I learn by dabbling and have always wanted to become a world-class programmer, creating awesome software for the world.
Once the announcement is made for the latest frontend framework, or when jQuery releases an update or the launch of some epic application like Office LIBRE, I'm usually ecstatic.
 However dabbling will not cut it, so I sought out some sound and solid theories on skill acquistuion as expounded by Messr Kaufman, J. in his well written book...
It is widely known that olympic athletes work long hours. Really long hours. So I set out to follow a regimen of workouts proposed by Michael K.(link to follow)...

Boy things are hotting up, I just discovered that I have lost marks, no scratch that, let easy marks slip from my hands..
Java Enterprise Edition, NetBeans, war files, entities, annotations and the all reverent servelets of JSF

Saw a post from @remy about procrastination. Its not that you do not know what to write or share about, but you think that what you know is so small and irrelevant.

The secret I am discovering lies primarily in having many tasks to accomplish. Now this may sound counter intuitive, it actually helps to switch tasks when a task is getting boring or mundane. How much should be the optimum duration to focus on a task for?

This journal has gone on too long without getting to the point, one hiatus too many and this has to stop. Have began putting order in my work processes. Must sustain...

And so the sustenance goes on, Java proving hard with the dire consequences of falling short of an incomplete project at deadline, but though the pressure is one guess who's gonn crack? Not me, and not you. Occasionally I get flashes of inspiration with understanding concepts I have long struggled to grasp that gives me a glimmer of hope that at least I'm on the right track. Keep pushing…

<<<<<<< HEAD
Another blasted hiatus, do I have no passion for what I claim I love to do? I think it best to hype yourself, create abuzz for yourself...
=======
Boodbath!
It was the day I had thought Java was now easy for me. Thing is
>>>>>>> 33748f76d5cedb75420d4dc6dea8bf3c7e8952cc

//Give cases

21JULY2014_Its on, the process has been kickstarted and the momentum must be sustained. Finally sucked it up and figured out DOM querying, (like 5 years late, smh...) with array manipulation. It felt good because this has been on my to do list for four years. anyways, its done now and its unto the next one. And oh, did y'all know what my Holy Grail web dev project is? Thought not, well long story short. at this meetup there was this badass dev who coded a game server in JS in four minutes flat! And i shite you not, I was ashamed for myself. I then set a goal that I must work towards becoming fluent in JS to code a server, any server without some framework in ten minutes flat. Beat that meetup badass...!

24JULY2014_I am most thankful for my life, being part of an amazing community of creatives. i am most especially thankful for the knowledge flowing freely, and I hope to reciprocate in the same vein in the not too distant future.

26JULY2014_Whoa, its two days already since I made a pledge to push commits daily- to write at all costs (JS, Java or a running work journal). Initiating a routine, making it a habit and consistently keeping at it is hard work. Forget those chaps that try to teach you a new skill in 24 hours. You'll leave yourself only frustrated. However it is worth realizing that you got to balance out certain parameters, sort of like a separation of concerns for opportunity cost. //moreText

28JULY2014_Dedication and commitment to practice. The fine folks at tutorials point said practice comes by practicing practice does not need to remember.

31July2014_The world is governed by patterns. Principles, rules, laws,  are all patterns that govern the occurrences that every entity interacting with every other entity in the universe ought to recognise and align themselves with. The story is told of this guy standing in a synagogue doing a Rubik’s Cube during services yesterday.

I’d been looking around the room when I noticed him and realised what he was doing.  And where.

And then I saw he knew what he was doing. The colours started lining up.  And then he was done.  He put it down on the table and turned his attention back to services.

Turns out it wasn’t his cube.  He’d found it on the table and wanted to leave things better than he’d found them.

“Tell me,” I asked later, “There must be a system for solving those, isn’t there?”

“Sure,” he said.  “There are pattens. You need to learn to recognise the patterns.  It’s math.  You just need to memorise some algorithms.”

He lost me at math.  And my eyes glazed over when he said logarithms.  But PATTERNS – THAT I get.  Because it’s the same in building a consistent flow of customers.  And that’s an area where I’ve paid my dues.  I’ve learned to see the patterns – and it changed my life.

You’ve probably done your own twisting the Marketing Cube this way and that, hoping to get the thing solved.  You may get lucky and solve one side.  But to solve the whole puzzle, you need to learn to see the  patterns, the structure that makes it work.

In any area of human excellence, many pick up a cube, spin it this way and that, and put it down with a chuckle.  “This can’t be done.”   They quit before they started.

There are also those who, like my nine year old, take the cube apart and put it back the way he wants it. These are the marketing plumbers and the wide-eyed techno-zealots.  They discover you can peel the stickers and put them where you want them – and no one will know!  Imagine that!

But the techno-zealots never learn to THINK. They never learn how to see the patterns, the structure that makes your work.
I beg you – don’t be like them.  There’s no pride in that work.  And not much money, either. Unless you’re the cult leader.

Finally, there are those who stand there twisting and hoping and turning and hoping until one of two things happen:

They’re forced to get a job.
Or they realise someone out there must know the pattern.  And they go learn it.

2AUGUST2014_The future belongs to those who can see patterns and rightly apply it.
=======
1AUGUST2014_Time flies but you are pilot.
It pays to have a roster of tasks committed to paper that will need to be accomplished. This way, one is better able to deal with distractions and sidestep all those small tasks that creep up and eat into one's time. Enter productivity methodologies. I have been looking at ways to bust distractions and boost my productivity lately.
ZeroTODOList, Pomodoro, GTD, GPA are some methodologies I had explored and sifted down to just two- Pomodoro and GTD. Yep, thats all you really ever need.

In reality although you only have to make a list of everything you have to do and get down to doing them, I have realised that to be even more productive one has to adopt a productivity methodology. The above mentioned two methodologies, pomodoro and GTD will be a starting point. It should be however noted that a hybrid of these methodologies could produce better synergies for anyone practicing or working towards improving their productivity.

That said, let us go over the highlights of the methodologies previously discussed.

Getting Things Done(GTD) is a methodology that emphasises doing as much of the tasks as you have to do and keeping your to do list cleared up as much as possible. The ZeroTODOList is a derivative of the GTD methodology.

Pomodoro advocates setting up a list of tasks you need to do, then allotting time slices of say, 40 minutess to each of these tasks. So when doing the task, you only focus on that one task for the duration of the 40 minutes, come what may.

The Seinfield methodology appeals to the human aversion to breaking chains (to some extant, habits). Here when you have committed to building a steady string of accomplishments, your motivation is not to stop the processes that lead to making these accomplishments.

The Action Method proposes leaving every meeting, personal meditation or brainstorming session with a clear and concise step of actions that can be performed.

A hybrid mix of the above methodologies can also adopted to the individual as she deems fit.

Another of my favourites is actually creating a list, this list will contain everything. From goals, plans and actions (see entry for 25Aug). Everything. This particularly helps when I’m in a quandary from having a lot to do my mind is in a relative mushy state. This singular action soothes the nerves by making your believe you are actually on track to sorting out the apparent lack of order in your life. As the human mind it seemed craves order in every ramification of life.


6AUGUST2014_A two day hiatus has gone past in a wispy blur of time. You could say time flies, however you are the pilot. Can you be a productive coder when life throws all its got at you while pulling the carpet from under your feet at the same time? I dunno. I guess its safe to say that everything that is happening today was a result of past decisions wrongly taken yesterday. However in forethought I am strongly aware of the fact that back then something of a premonition about the state I have found myself in today came in dreams and visions. When one is handed an intelligence ala spy flicks one acts on it to forestall the negative consequences of said intelligence. What did I do? I rather wished it away.

10AUGUST2014_Here we go again, letting the chain break… Life is not cruel. Its only indifferent. Finding the time to get things done and make all this ideas happen.

16AUGUST2014_Its all coming together now, consistent effort pays off. This reiterates what Mr Einstein, A. said- He who devotes himself to a cause must do so with his whole heart and strength to become a master. This saying I think is derived from the counsel in the bible that encourages us to “resist unto blood”. Is it a hard and rather difficult concept in OOP, could it be a negative habit, or it might be a desire to lead a principled life. Often times we only just put in the barest of efforts in the tasks that we have to accomplish. Over time this attitude metamorphoses into mediocrity and a laissez faire manner. On the flip side repeating the actions that led to a major success will lead to an attitude of success. If you do not repeat the actions that led to a success you won’t be successful. Death to mediocrity, death to lack of order. Iron sharpens iron, watch out for who you associate with. Watch out for what you allow yourself to consume in terms of what you hear, see or read. Code strong…

20AUGUST2014_I must say it has been good going, the past 4 or 5 days. The form that comes from being consistent. This gives a certain confidence in one's abilities. Consistency is key. As the track record of making consistent accomplishments of one's to-do or intended projects increases, the success feeds off the confidence. Banking on this, the converse is true that the confidence will create an atmosphere conducive to succeeding in tasks.

26AUGUST2014_What is the ideal process for work? Get a goal that's challenging while at the same time, is able to be broken into smaller fundamental tasks that can be measured or ticked off when accomplished. So have a SMART goal, then work with the POMODORO methodology. Its that simple. This will need to be put to test. //read up on that Seize The Day app.

30AUGUST2014_Another day gone, I  look back and I must say it must not always be about the coding. Read up on algorithm theory, or requirements engineering or design methodologies. You got to throw in some other activity other than coding to keep things spicy. Stay away from coding too long; take twice or thrice as long to catch up or get back up to speed. Do it too frequently, and this i know some hardliners are going to cringe in disaccord, you get disoriented in a manner of speaking- losing motivation or inspiration for one…
So while staying away from coding, engage in other activity to learn other related concepts and stay relevant. Its all about constructive reinforcement, baby!
 Code strong!

31AUGUST2014_ The last day in august, and although i am not up to the level I would like myself to be yet, i am quite willing to accept the pace and progress made so far. For people like me, i need to have a clear sense of purpose for tasks to be accomplished. Using apps like seize the day, every hour in the day can be accounted for. So precious time is not spent on whatsoever side distractions. Make a list of tasks you’d like accomplished and cross them off as you go along every day. (*wink) In the next couple of days I’d like to get the hang of working with Ajax XMLHttpRequest, finish bootstrapping my site, begin work on creating a brand identity and reading up on some tenets of software engineering. This journal will hold all projects I would eventually work on.

1SEPTEMBER2014_What does it take to go from idea to prototype? Or from plan to execution? This lethargy, the inertia to get things going that's now a part of me must be something that needs stop.

3SEPTEMBER2014_ Don’t break the chain. Just one slip up in the process causes a whole breakdown of the system progress. Think of it this way, just as a vehicle is approaching escape velocity, one part fails. It will take a whole lot of work to get back up to the point where the vehicle will attain escape velocity status.

7SEPTEMBER2014_
what??

13DECEMBER2014_So far, I have to say that my journey in JS has been discouraging. Let us set a new mark as of today. Six weeks from now, will you have attained competence in JS?

04JANUARY2015_on 18December2014 I set the goal to be proficient in using functional JS and become adept with the nuances of the language. Some ideas regarding using JS wholesale as the MVC engine for serving pages to craft websites, wiring in the content from arrays as opposed to databases. This will be exciting?
=======
13DECEMBER2014
So far, I have to say that my journey in JS has been discouraging. Let us set a new mark as of today. Six weeks from now, will you have attained competence in JS?

14DECEMBER2014
Its getting clearer why the need for isolation from distractions is necessary. Many things happen that take from time to give proper time and attention to the work that is important to you. Cut out these distraction and watch your productivity soar. Do not get caught up in brain chains that cause you to go into suspended animation mode where you are left in a quandary about what to do. Just pick an item and get it done!

01JANUARY2015
Whoaa!! Its the first of the year 2015 and it still feels as if nothing changed from when the first of these posts went up. ??

05JANUARY2015_Hacking motivation to keep at doing what I love. They say there will always be ups and down but this is a tad too much, having to grapple with ebbs of distraction

17JANUARY2015_This is going well, I must say. I feel confident handling JS objects, and have gotten to the point where the need to begin cobbling the small parts begins. Interesting days ahead.

1DECEMBER2015_It is a race, a not a sprint. Think on this.

07DECEMBER2015_The last statement is true. Think on this. Keeping up a schedule on the regular is hard. So much so when there are a hundred other equally legitimate tasks demanding your attention. Remember, consistency pays.
=======
17DECEMBER2015_ Mercy is a virtue which we are not capable of. Don’t be too easy on yourself.


18DECEMBER2015_ No Thing

19DECEMBER2015_ Don’t break the chain

20DECEMBER2015_ Keep at it. Einstein says it’s not that he’s so smart, it’s just that he stays with problems longer.

21DECEMBER2015_

22DECEMBER2015_

24DECEMBER2015_

25DECEMBER2015_

26DECEMBER2015_

27DECEMBER2015_I am seeing the light now! Its all subjective whether or not I’m getting better at my craft. Keep going, if you fall, rise back up and keep at it.

28DECEMBER2015_

01JANUARY2016_The one factor that will fuel your drive, act as your North star and keep you on the path to actualizing your dream-- IKIGAI. Ikigai is the reason for being, the reason for getting up out of bed in the morning.

02JANUARY2016_

06JANUARY2016_ Taking charge. Write, even it is gibberish. Just write and keep writing.

08JANUARY2015_

<<<<<<< HEAD
<<<<<<< HEAD
08JANUARY2015_
=======
09JANUARY2015_

10JANUARY2015_

11JANUARY2015_

12JANUARY2015_

14JANUARY2015_

15JANUARY2015_

16JANUARY2015_

17JANUARY2015_

18JANUARY2015_

19JANUARY2015_

22JANUARY2015_Do stuff. Try again, when it seems you’re sounding like a broken record just keep at it.

25JANUARY2015_Now things are at a head, Theres is now the momentum going. Start improving the quality your code commits.


31JANUARY2015_

1FEBRUARY2015_